[DOCS] Add 8.19.21 release notes (#288003)
elastic/kibana: docs/CHANGELOG.asciidoc

include::upgrade-notes.asciidoc[]

[[release-notes-8.19.21]]
== {kib} 8.19.21

The 8.19.21 release includes the following breaking changes and fixes.

[float]
[[breaking-changes-v8.19.21]]
=== Breaking changes

Stack connectors::

> The email connector now verifies TLS certificates on HTTPS proxies and OAuth2 token endpoints by default. Connections to hosts with self-signed, expired, or hostname-mismatched certificates that previously succeeded will now fail. To opt out, set `rejectUnauthorized: false` for the affected host in `xpack.actions.customHostSettings`. Hosted SMTP with public certificate authorities is unaffected ({kibana-pull}283150[#283150]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The email connector now verifies TLS certificates on HTTPS proxies and OAuth2 token endpoints by default. Connections to hosts with self-signed, expired, or hostname-mismatched certificates that previously succeeded will now fail. To keep the previous behavior on the proxy connection, set `xpack.actions.ssl.proxyVerificationMode: none`. Per-host `xpack.actions.customHostSettings` (custom CA or relaxed hostname) does not apply to the proxy connection. Only self-managed deployments that route email through an HTTPS proxy are affected ({kibana-pull}283150[#283150]).
```

> The email connector now verifies TLS certificates on HTTPS proxies and OAuth2 token endpoints by default. Connections to hosts with self-signed, expired, or hostname-mismatched certificates that previously succeeded will now fail. To opt out, set `rejectUnauthorized: false` for the affected host in `xpack.actions.customHostSettings`. Hosted SMTP with public certificate authorities is unaffected ({kibana-pull}283150[#283150]).

Reviewer: @wajihaparvez I can't apply the change here for some reason, but I guess it's valid :D

> The email connector now verifies TLS certificates on HTTPS proxies and OAuth2 token endpoints by default. Connections to hosts with self-signed, expired, or hostname-mismatched certificates that previously succeeded will now fail. To opt out, set `rejectUnauthorized: false` for the affected host in `xpack.actions.customHostSettings`. Hosted SMTP with public certificate authorities is unaffected ({kibana-pull}283150[#283150]).

Reviewer 2: @florent-leborgne @wajihaparvez based on a similar experience I've had in the `ingest-docs` repo, I think that when you branch off of `8.19` and give a name to your new branch that starts with `8.19`, this makes the new branch (`9.19.21-rns`) inherit the branch rules of the `8.19` branch... so I think, in this case, we'd need a separate PR to merge to the `9.19.21-rns` branch ([ruleset](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/rules?ref=refs%2Fheads%2F8.19.21-rns)).

<img width="680" height="172" alt="Screenshot 2026-08-31 at 16 28 24" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/52f801d4-cd69-486d-8b76-63e20dc15340" />

From the ruleset:

<img width="644" height="126" alt="Screenshot 2026-08-31 at 16 24 11" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ae0d389c-21d6-4287-90ed-d9f271d53d86" />

> The email connector now verifies TLS certificates on HTTPS proxies and OAuth2 token endpoints by default. Connections to hosts with self-signed, expired, or hostname-mismatched certificates that previously succeeded will now fail. To opt out, set `rejectUnauthorized: false` for the affected host in `xpack.actions.customHostSettings`. Hosted SMTP with public certificate authorities is unaffected ({kibana-pull}283150[#283150]).

Reviewer: ah yeah I've had such issues in the past

> The email connector now verifies TLS certificates on HTTPS proxies and OAuth2 token endpoints by default. Connections to hosts with self-signed, expired, or hostname-mismatched certificates that previously succeeded will now fail. To opt out, set `rejectUnauthorized: false` for the affected host in `xpack.actions.customHostSettings`. Hosted SMTP with public certificate authorities is unaffected ({kibana-pull}283150[#283150]).

Reviewer 2: Ah, actually, based on the [branch targeting criteria](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/rules/34255?ref=refs%2Fheads%2F8.19.21-rns) of this ruleset, this rule is applied to all branches with `8.*` names, so this is unrelated to which branch has been used as a base.

[float]
[[fixes-v8.19.21]]
=== Fixes
Alerting::
* Limit alerts-as-data resource installation concurrency to reduce peak heap usage ({kibana-pull}287643[#287643]).
* Fix alert suppression for alerts stored with nested `_source` fields to prevent creating duplicate alerts instead of updating existing ones ({kibana-pull}282192[#282192]).
Data ingestion and Fleet::
* Fix Fleet to restrict cluster privileges in package manifests to an allowlist before writing agent API key permissions ({kibana-pull}286084[#286084]).

> * Fix Fleet Kafka output to accept multi-format-string patterns entered directly in the dynamic topic free-text field ({kibana-pull}285581[#285581]).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fix Fleet to ignore cluster privileges other than `monitor` in package manifests when applying permissions to agent API keys ({kibana-pull}286084[#286084]).
* Fix Fleet Kafka output to accept custom multi-field format strings entered directly in the Dynamic Topic field instead of producing an invalid topic expression ({kibana-pull}285581[#285581]).
```

* Fix Console body autocomplete failing after closed triple-quoted string values ({kibana-pull}286695[#286695]).
* Fix Console autocomplete not triggering at request body positions, and correct template expansion and text corruption bugs when accepting suggestions ({kibana-pull}284530[#284530]).
* Fix Console incorrectly showing autocomplete suggestions inside non-query triple-quoted strings ({kibana-pull}282424[#282424]).
Elastic Observability solution::
* Add a warning in the Synthetics UI when a private-location agent is too old to support maintenance windows ({kibana-pull}285327[#285327]).
* Fix custom threshold rate aggregation to correctly alert when a counter increases from 0 ({kibana-pull}283973[#283973]).
Elastic Security solution::
For the Elastic Security 8.19.21 release information, refer to {security-guide}/release-notes.html[_Elastic Security release notes_].
Elasticsearch solution::
* Fix query rule set and rule ID validation to reject invalid characters before sending requests to {es} ({kibana-pull}276710[#276710]).
Kibana platform::

> * Fix PKI session invalidation when in-flight HTTP/2 requests are cancelled ({kibana-pull}285153[#285153]).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Fix PKI session invalidation when in-flight HTTP/2 requests are canceled ({kibana-pull}285153[#285153]).
```

Really minor, but this is the American spelling
